How a business creates awareness for their products
Businesses use marketing strategies to build awareness among potential customers. You have learned that the first stage of the marketing funnel is the awareness stage. In this stage, potential customers first become aware of a product or service. The customers don’t know about the brand and aren’t seeking out its products or services. Because potential customers aren’t aware of the brand, it’s the business’s job to introduce their products or services.

In this reading, you’ll learn how a fictional company, Lirio Cases, creates a marketing strategy to build awareness. Lirio Cases makes premium leather phone cases. They have been in operation for several years. Even though they have a growing customer base, they would like to reach even more customers interested in their products.

Here are the marketing strategies Lirio Cases uses to build awareness in potential customers:

Search engine marketing (SEM)
While Lirio Cases’ website does appear on Google and Bing’s first page of search results for keywords such as “leather iphone case” or “leather android case,” their visibility is towards the bottom of the page. 

In addition to their website’s presence, they would also like to have a presence with advertising towards the top of the search results page. So, they decide to create and publish search ads using Google Ads and Microsoft Advertising. These ads allow Lirio Cases to get their brand in front of customers searching for their products. For example, when someone searches for one of their products, “black leather iphone case,” their ad typically appears with other ads at the top of the search engine.

Social media marketing
Lirio Cases is on several social media platforms and has a large following on Instagram. They usually post simple photos of their products. However,  they would like to reach new customers by making their Instagram content provide more useful information. 

To do this, they take high-quality photos with their leather phone cases matched with other popular items such as pens, wallets, and watches. Artfully pairing their phone cases with other items gives new customers a reason to follow their account: style and fashion recommendations.  

Social media advertising
In addition to making high-quality Instagram posts, Lirio Cases also advertises on social media platforms. To reach new potential customers, they target customers based upon the customer personas they previously created. For the ad content, they re-use the new high quality photos on their Instagram account.

The social media advertising reaches new customers and also grows their following on Facebook and Instagram.

Influencer marketing
To increase their new customer reach on Instagram, Lirio Cases decides to pay an influencer with a large following to promote their latest leather phone case in a post. By having an influencer promote Lirio Cases, tens of thousands of new potential customers learn about Lirio Cases’ brand and products. 

In the Instagram post, the influencer encourages followers to visit Lirio Cases’ Instagram account and promotes a 15% discount on the next 200 purchases.

Key takeaways
The combination of search engine marketing, social media marketing, social media advertising, and influencer marketing helps Lirio Cases reach many new potential customers. Reaching potential customers is only the first step. After the initial introduction, they now have to build interest and persuade the potential customer to become a paying customer.

It’s important to remember that as a digital marketer, it’s unlikely you’ll be implementing all these strategies at once. It’s more likely that you will build out one strategy at a time. Additionally, a typical small to medium-sized business may only focus on two or three of these strategies. In a larger company, digital marketers typically specialize in a particular type of marketing, such as search engine marketing or social media marketing.

## How a marketer increases consideration for a business
The second stage of the marketing funnel is consideration. During the consideration stage, a business builds interest in their product or service. The potential customer knows about the product. The business provides information to move the customer closer to a purchase.

While there are similar strategies between the awareness and consideration stage, there is a difference. The consideration stage typically provides more in-depth and persuasive information than the awareness stage.

A fictional company that makes leather phone cases, Lirio Cases, has tens of thousands of potential customers who are aware of their products. They are trying to build interest and desire in those potential customers.

Here are some marketing strategies Lirio Cases uses to build interest:

Remarketing ads
Remarketing ads are advertisements delivered to previous purchasers or visitors to a brand’s website or social media. Lirio Cases would like to advertise to potential customers who visit their website or social media pages. After someone visits their website or social media page, Lirio Cases remarkets ads for the specific product page they visited.

For example, when someone visits the product page for the leather iPhone case, Lirio Cases can deliver ads for that product to that visitor on Instagram. If the visitor would like to learn more about the leather iPhone case, they can click on a link to revisit the website. If the visitor wants to learn more about the brand, they can easily visit Lirio Cases’ Instagram account.

Email marketing
When someone visits Lirio Cases’ website, the person is encouraged to sign up for the email list to receive a 15% first order discount. While some visitors make a purchase immediately with this discount, most do not. 

Lirio Cases keeps in touch with these customers through email marketing. Once a week, potential customers receive emails about leather-based products, including phone cases. Through the emails, Lirio Cases also informs new customers about the brand’s story, including how the business started, their quality leather, sustainability, and how they’re inspiring their customers. 

Testimonials
Testimonials are when customers share their experiences with a company’s products. To increase interest among potential customers, Lirio Cases includes positive testimonials on product pages, on their social media, and periodically in emails. 

Potential customers read the testimonials of current customers and gain confidence in the product’s quality. The potential customers also start to imagine what it would be like to own the leather phone case.

Unique selling proposition
A unique selling proposition (USP) explains why a product or service is better than the competition. Lirio Cases decides that it needs to better explain why their products are preferable to those of their competitors. 

Lirio Cases’ USP is “Phone cases with premium leather and design that can go everywhere you do.” This USP clearly states why a customer should buy their leather phone cases. To make the unique selling proposition effective, Lirio Cases includes it throughout their website and marketing materials. They state it clearly and often.

Key takeaways
To build interest in potential customers, Lirio Cases uses remarketing ads, email marketing, testimonials, and a revamped unique selling proposition. 

The marketing strategies a company uses in the consideration phase can vary drastically. Lirio Cases’ products are under $80. For higher priced products and services, more in-depth strategies may be needed, such as webinars, case studies, and free trials. The higher priced the product, typically the longer it takes to build interest in a potential customer.

After a company builds interest in their products and brand, they should focus on strategies for the next funnel stage, conversion.


Terms and definitions from Course 2, Week 1
A/B testing: A method of testing where two versions of content with a single differing variable are compared to determine which yields better results

Abandoned cart: When a potential customer adds an item to their cart but doesn’t complete the purchase

Awareness stage: The first stage of the marketing funnel, when a potential customer first becomes aware of the product or service

Consideration stage: The second stage of the marketing funnel, when a potential customer’s interest builds for a product or service

Content marketing: A marketing technique that focuses on creating and distributing valuable content

Conversion rate: The percentage of users or website visitors who take a desired action

Conversion stage: The third stage of the marketing funnel, when marketers capitalize on the interest people have already shown

Copy: Any written material that encourages a customer to buy a product or service

Customer persona: Represents a group of similar people in a desirable audience

Customer persona barrier: What is preventing the customer from achieving their goal

Customer persona goal: What the customer wants to achieve

Demographics: Information specific to the customer, such as age, gender identity, income, family size, occupation, education, and location

Display ad: A visual ad format placed on websites or applications

Email marketing: Sending messages to a list of existing subscribers to share information, drive sales, or create community

Influencer marketing: Involves a brand collaborating with an online influencer to market one of its products or services

Loyalty stage: The fourth stage of the marketing funnel, when customers become repeat customers and brand advocates

Remarketing ad: An advertisement delivered to previous purchasers, subscribers, or visitors to a brand’s website or social media

Search engine marketing (SEM): Increasing a website’s visibility on a search engine results page through paid advertising

Search engine optimization (SEO): The process of increasing the visibility of website pages on search engines in order to attract more relevant traffic

Social media marketing: The process of creating content for different social media platforms in order to drive engagement and promote a business or product

Social share: When a customer shares a product or service with their social media followers

Strategy: A plan to achieve a marketing goal

Tactic: An action a marketer takes to make a marketing goal happen

Unique selling proposition (USP): An explanation of why a product or service is better than the competition

Webinar: A presentation, typically educational, that is provided online

